In the mid-1960s, when I was pioneering, the political system was changing rapidly in the
country, making it difficult for brothers to maintain their neutral stand.
Brothers were beaten, their bibles and literature burned for refusing to buy political
party cards.
They burned down the brothers' homes and kingdom home in my area.
I was stopped because of not having a political party card.
They tied my hands and started beating me severely.
When they went to have supper, one stayed behind to guard me.
He felt very sorry for me and said they will kill you when they retain.
So he suggested that if I can be able to at least crawl, then he would untie me and allow
me to escape.
It was dark outside and I dragged myself alone until I reached the brothers' home who
kindly assisted me.
Jehovah made a way out so that I could enjoy.
An official announcement was made that the wake of the over-switnesses was banned.
Our meetings were done at night from about 9 p.m. to about 1 a.m. in the morning.
And to avoid detection, we were not able to clap hands when things go well or sing songs
because for that we would be found.
But to show appreciation, we just had to rub hands together.
At my workplace, it became known that I was one of the over-switnesses and was arrested.
I was taken to Chile prison and later transferred to Zomba prison where they kept condemned criminals.
I was kept in a cell next to the execution gallows.
I thought I was also going to be executed as well.
Jehovah came to me and remembering Romans 8 to 8, I was convinced that even this would
not separate me from God's love.
When I was raised, I was so happy to be with my wife and the children.
But because it was extremely dangerous to stay in Malawi at that time, we had to go to
Mozambique in Malangani camp where we spent three years as refugees.
We were permitted to have bibles, songbooks and other publications.
When we looked back at what happened at Malangani camp, we see that it was Jehovah helping
us to prepare for the things I ate.
We had to memorize scriptures and also think those songs.
For the scriptures, for example, in 1974, the Eatex was taken at Hebacook 3, 1798.
And the Eatex said that, for me, I would exot in Jehovah.
I would be joyful in the God of my salvation.
We didn't know how helpful this text would be in the future.
Because of civil war in Mozambique, we were forced back to Malawi in 1935.
I was arrested and sent to the Reykjav prison.
We had to work from morning to evening without food or rest.
Cell blocks were overcrowded with most of us sleeping on the floor.
The scriptures and songs that we had memorized were we were at Malangani refugee camp in Mozambique.
We are really very strengthening to us when we are in the Reykjav prison.
And this, for the time when that Eatex that we received in Mozambique helped us.
The brothers would say, have backook and then the other one would reply, 3, 1798.
And then the others had to recite the Eatex, all these verses.
With that, our faith was strengthened.
Spiritual food was smogwooded into the country by Biasco Koreas,
who were traveling hundreds of kilometers.
The magazines were printed on Bible paper, which is much lighter than the regular paper
so that the Koreas could carry double the amount.
We also were supplied with the mini magazines that could be folded and be put into a pocket.
One day, we received the smogwood copy of the Eate book,
which used to also contain the daily text.
So what we did was that we copied all the text on the 20th tissues.
And then we sent some of these to our sisters who were on the other prison blocks.
All these were wonderful provisions from the over.
That helped us quite a lot to be kept spiritually strong.
In 2002, I was sent back to Zomber prison.
But this time, not as a prisoner, but as a district overseer to care for a mini-sector assembly.
When I entered, my mind quickly went back to 33 years when I was in the same prison
next to the extrusion glass.
Through the width that I read 54, this 17 came true,
which says, no weapon formed against you will have any success.
As a family, riot in the eye, how injured government persecutions, refugee camps,
prisons, beatings, like a food and shelter, with death of loved ones,
and at times thinking, we would die ourselves.
Yet, we are never beyond the reach of George Lavignon.
Through all of these challenges, we were, and continue to be fully convinced
that nothing can separate us from God's love.